So let's move on to another bug.
Here's one I think we've
all had in our application.
User called up and they complained,
sometimes your page is slow.
Awesome, dude,
that gives me a lot to go on.
So let's see if we can
figure out why it's slow.
So I'm gonna just open this back up.
If I just reload the page.
Seems fast to me.
Works on my machine, next bug.
No, obviously, we can't do that.
Well, so I'm running getRANTr,
locally off of my computer,
using pretty okay piece of hardware and
a pretty new browser, and
it's kind of the only thing I'm doing.
But I bet some of my users are not
using quite so nice machines and
probably on not so
nice Internet connections.
So we can try and understand, what does
my application look like for them?
If we go into the network tool,
there's some tools we can use to actually
manipulate how the network
is going to react.
So up here in the header of it, on the
far-right side is a throttling selector,
where I can tell Chrome to not
go as fast as it could go.
To instead try and simulate, what would
the experience of this page be like for
somebody on a not so good connection?
So for example,
I could say, hey, maybe somebody is
using me on a good 3G connection.
Like it's all right, they're traveling,
they're ranting on the go.
They're in some city.
So let's put it on good 3G.
And so that's going to introduce
some artificial latency and
artificial limitations
when rendering the page.
And just to help you out, so
you don't forget if you've turned that on.
You might see that there's a little
warning symbol above network now.
So that later today, when you go to
Facebook or Twitter or whatever and
it's running really slow,
you remember, yeah,
I really slowed down my Chrome for
debugging.
All right, so with that throttling in
place I'm gonna just reload the page here.
Still going, and done.
That's it, it took a little while.
It says it took 11 seconds front to end,
1.4 seconds to the load event.
Let's do it again.
There it goes, got a little bit more,
ads coming in, ads filling in.
It is kind of slow.
Let's see if we can
figure out why it's slow.
What are the things that are causing
this to be slow for those users?
To do that,
we're gonna use the timeline tool again.
Because here's another thing that
the timeline tool is really good at, for
understanding how does
your application load.
For this, I don't necessarily care about
the memory utilization but
I care about screenshots.
I wanna see what did my
page look like over time.
And so by switching the timeline
from memory to screenshots,
I'm just going to hit
this reload page button.
And it's going to start
capturing a timeline
immediately from when
the request takes place.
And so I can see step by step,
what were the actions that took
place to load the page, and
how long did they take?
So reloading the page.
Again, still taking quite a few seconds.
And I see a bunch of information,
Here at the main timeline view, looks
similar to what it looked like before,
we see frames per second,
CPU, and network.
I turned off memory, but
now we see screenshots.
As you mouse over this area,
you can see actual screenshots of
what did your page look like at
this stage in the load cycle.
And we can see as I'm mousing over mine,
I'm about a second in and
I see that we have a text box and
a Rant button, and a title, and that's it.
We'll get some more data start popping
in at around 1,500 milliseconds.
We know who the current user is.
We see that it's Donald.
And we see some of Donald's
rants start coming in.
At about 2,000 milliseconds,
we see his profile picture pop in.
Then, at about 2,500 milliseconds,
we realize,
there's some ads that
need to get rendered.
And we create some boxes for them,
but they don't quite finish until,
3,500, they're about halfway done,
about 4,500 milliseconds before
the ads are totally done.
In the middle sections here, what's more
important to look at than the JavaScript
execution blocks that we're
looking at before is the network.
And here, we can break down and look
at each individual network request that
happened and the order they happened and
to put together the page.